Project: Data Lake

Introduction

A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database even more and want to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

We are tasked with building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables. This will allow their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.


Project Description

In this project, you'll apply what you've learned on Spark and data lakes to build an ETL pipeline for a data lake hosted on S3. We will need to load data from S3, process the data into analytics tables using Spark, and load them back into S3. We'll deploy this Spark process on a cluster using AWS.

Project Datasets

We'll be working with two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data
Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data

Song Dataset
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json

Log Dataset
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json

Schema for Song Play Analysis

Using the song and log datasets, we'll need to create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables.

Fact Table

songplays - records in log data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

Dimension Tables

users - users in the app
user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
songs - songs in music database
song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
artists - artists in music database
artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude
time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

Project Template

The project template includes three files:

etl.py reads data from S3, processes that data using Spark, and writes them back to S3
dl.cfgcontains your AWS credentials
README.md provides discussion on your process and decisions

ETL Pipeline

Read aws credentials from dl.cfg--> Load data from S3-->Process data using spark to create fact and dimension tables-->Load back processed tables to S3

To Run: Enter credentials in dl.cfg, change output S3 bucket in output_data in main in etl.py if needed, Type python3 etl.py in terminal and press Enter